###ESSAY - My Learning Plan

Faith, Family and Service. These are the core values I hold close to me that guide my decisions, interactions, and how I want to be as a person.
I always strive to model these values in any environment I enter. I reflect a lot over these values, and use a Bible scripture as a daily reminder 
to always model them, especially when I "lose my way." This scripture reads: "Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged, 
for the Lord your God will be with you where you go." - Joshua 1:9. My faith is my foundation. It reminds me that I am never walking alone and 
gives me the strength and guidance to face whatever lies ahead. My family is my why. They give meaning to the person I want to be and inspire me 
to be better each day. My service is my contribution. I want to use what I have learned, my experiences, and my abilities to serve others. 
This verse captures what these values mean to me and how I can shape my interactions to be positive, genuine, and with a face of grace. 
I also have this scripture tattooed on my chest as a constant reminder and re-aligner.

Understanding that not all environments will automatically align with what I feel and believe, the core ethical consideration that matters to me 
in a Tech environment is the space to bring my "full self" to work-meaning what I hold dear and true to my heart is accepted. Over time, 
I have learned to offer that same grace and receive colleagues as they are. I believe this is the essence of an unshakeable team foundation: 
allowing yourself to immerse into the work environment to create positive influence and be held accountable when you don't.

My current work strategies involve a lot of self-reflection and co-reflection to enhance my ability to self-regulate. I believe I work optimally 
when I am in a state of peace. I like to use the analogy of a hot-air balloon when it comes to learning, in that our minds are like hot-air 
alloons. In order for a hot-air balloon to work best, it needs to be opened, ironed, and flattened out to create the most surface area to be filled 
with heat and lift. To create optimal learning, our minds need to be clear and open to receive as much insight and growth as possible.

I have a preference for learning through discussion and application, but I am also confident learning in other ways (reading, watching, etc.) 
because I can lean on my confidence to seek guidance and support. I will admit, I have already experienced competency whiplash-which gave me the 
wake-up call I needed to rebuild confidence in seeking help. I have always believed the best way to seek help is just to ask. I'm a firm believer 
in the classic phrase, "If you don't ask, you won't know!" When tackling coding problems, my strategy will be to work through a problem for 15-20 
minutes using my own troubleshooting and research first, and if I remain stuck, to proactively reach out to peers or facilitators for help.

To stay focused, I ensure I take breaks so that outside noise and excessive continuous screen time don't drain my attention span. I am a firm 
believer that traditional educators have often mistaken the biggest learning barrier as retention, when the real barrier is attention. I have 
strategies in place to maintain my attention, but like any human, attention spans have time limits. To manage this (and help in times of 
frustration), I note down whatever thoughts or frustrations have crept into my mind in my journal and ensure I return to them during a planned 
break. This ensures I don't suppress those thoughts or feelings, but instead acknowledge them and allocate an appropriate time to go through the 
motions.

During Foundations, I have been able to create balance between my study, work, and my duties as a father. I allocate specific times where I need to
put on different hats. I made a pact with myself to always find time in the day for myself to focus on self-reflection, which I do through the gym.
 I also meditate, pray, and use cold plunges and saunas to practice this as well. These practices always refill my tank!

At the moment, my main goals for Dev Academy are to successfully complete the course and learn as much as I can. To achieve this, I will create a
ctionable SMART mini-goals for each sprint to keep myself accountable and on track. For example, during Sprint 1, my SMART goal will be: "By the end
of the sprint, I will complete all foundational HTML/CSS exercises, write reflection entries after each block of learning, and ask for help from 
a facilitator or peer within 20 minutes if I encounter a blocker." I have used SMART goals extensively in my work with great success, which 
highlights a key strength I bring to my learning. Another strength I bring is my openness to learn-allowing my mind to expand and take in as much 
new knowledge as possible.

I anticipate many challenges ahead because this is all brand-new learning. Examples include tech jargon, unfamiliar workflows, and getting 
unstuck during coding exercises. However, I will not let these barriers diminish my enthusiasm, because I want to be here and I want to 
create success in this course-and in this industry!

The biggest challenge I foresee is work-life balance. As a solo dad with limited support, I can see how demanding this course will eventually get. 
I don't want it to take away from my primary duties as a father, but I also don't want this challenge to impact my learning-because my kids are my 
why. This is for them, so that I can model the attitudes and behaviors one needs to muster in order to chase their dreams. I want to be successful 
in this course so I can create the lifestyle my kids need: flexibility, remote work, and the freedom to work abroad. That is what success 
looks like for me.

Here's to this new adventure-may it be filled with learning, connection, and success. I am asking for accountability and affirmation. 
Because this is all new for me, I don't always know what right or wrong looks like in terms of technical practices and processes, but what I lack 
in technical knowledge I make up for in leadership, willingness to learn, and attitude!

-	Dave Lepou